where r all the unit so
are we talking about my
interview with Jimmy Carter and
his efforts to
eradicate the guinea were
something I've your specialty
mark yeah you think about these
kinds of things all the time
every day which creeps me out I
just want you to know okay okay
just just that's fine okay it
doesn't creep you out
no so the guinea worm
it's not called the American
worm buckled in Russian were no
not hold a cuba were no it'll be
guinea worm but nobody
wants a disease named after the
country
that's certainly true and
president carter knew this
you this he did indeed
and he use this to his
diplomatic advantage
yes chip we had a very
are difficult problem in Ghana
which started out with 226,000
cases
and I got down to about 35
according to stay there for
about 10 years
soft money went to the president
three times and
tell we're gonna change the name
or the other anywhere I'm to
gonna work
and no rikers is named after
where was first
a discovered on it as your
nightmares Esther while
and so is an awesome and we're
able or at what price political
pressure on me. funny
got the word he became
interested and now we have zero
cases and Anna
clever peaceful threat right
hook up
on remember that this other guy
can and the weather a
a it works nice
the man was just thrown it down
you know that is
that is i mean that is a great
little ploy not carpool of some
or get some more tricks in his
bag
you know he's he's a Pisa he
wants peace what's the what's
the hash tag
a are waging peace waging peace
and
he actually use to Guinea work
to achieve
peace in one its absolutely
this find out how we did it they
had a war going on that were so
I'll
for
and dry seasons and wet seasons
dresses was once
today in with tanks and so forth
to travel easily the wet season
was when they
rivers flooded and the southern
Sudanese could prevail
so I what they are negotiated
for quite a while with the south
and north
and finally agreed on our on a
cease-fire just
so that we could do a week
anyway I'm both north and south
and they still call it a guinea
worm cease-fire but but but they
quit fighting for
more than six months that
desperate mines may have you
read about
was in the first world war there
was the Christmas cease-fire
stresses
cease-fire and it's a glimmer of
hope that there's some
sheep humanitarian dimension is
always that if you give people a
chance
and a very public stricken
country to to correct their own
problems
they do it's a purplish